Telerik-KendoUI-Grid-WCAG2
==========================

WCAG2 conformant Telerik KendoUI Grid

This is a C# MVC4 page which initialises the Telerik KendoUI Grid via JQuery and populates an example dataset from Telerik.

The two accessible features this <strong>example focuses on are filtering and sorting only</strong>. The Telerik built-in filtering and sorting options are unable to be understood when navigating with Assistive Technology (JAWS and NVDA) and have been discarded for a custom solution which uses Javascript/JQuery to achieve the same action.

Assumes a C# MVC4 project has been created and Telerik KendoUI has been properly setup.

##How our KendoUI grid is accessible##
- Hidden link text has been added to give sorting and filtering links more context, especially when AT users bring up a list of links on the page
- Replaces KendoUI built in filter and sort with a custom Javascript option
- Uses the KendoUI modal window to force focus onto the filtering options when activated
- ARIA live region is used to give information about the grid i.e. how many rows, what filter is applied how is the data sorted
- Filter option scans the rows and works out datatype based on value

##Tested against##
- Internet Explorer 11
- Google Chrome 28
- JAWS 14

##Accessibility failings with KendoUI Grid##
The built-in filtering and sorting offered by KendoUI is inconsistent, sorting and  filtering applied is not communicated to the user, filter options are triggered from the keyboard but require key combinations. The grid fails on the below WCAG success criteria.

- 1.3.1 Info and Relationships: Information, structure, and relationships conveyed through presentation can be programmatically determined or are available in text. (Level A)
- 2.1.1 Keyboard: All functionality of the content is operable through a keyboard interface without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes, except where the underlying function requires input that depends on the path of the user's movement and not just the endpoints. (Level A)
- 2.4.4 Link Purpose (In Context): The purpose of each link can be determined from the link text alone or from the link text together with its programmatically determined link context, except where the purpose of the link would be ambiguous to users in general. (Level A)
- 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value: For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies. (Level A)
